Answer the following questions:

1)  Identify which of the following examples of inheritance are correct by determining whether the "is-a" relationship of each is true of false:

a)  Class Dog inherits from class Animal : true

b)  Class Planet inherits from class Earth : false

c)  Class Customer inherits from class Bank : false
Assumption: The bank class is used to create objects of Bank. 
Example: Bank WellsFargo= new Bank();
         Bank Chase= new Bank();


 

2)  Explain each of the following in words:

a)  Single-level, multilevel, and hierarchical inheritance
    
    1.Single Level Inheritance: When a class extends another class only[just one] then we  call it a single inheritance

    2.Multilevel Inheritance: Multilevel inheritance refers to a mechanism in OO technology where one can inherit from a derived class, thereby making this derived class the base class for the new class. 

    3.Hierarchical Inheritance: In such kind of inheritance one class is inherited by many sub classes.

b)  "super" 
    used to refer immediate parent class object.
    If your method overrides one of its superclass's methods, you can invoke the overridden method through the use of the keyword super.


c)  Upcasting
    Up-casting is casting to a supertype
    Upcasting is done automatically.
    Does not require explicit Upcasting.


d)  Overridden method
    Declaring a method in subclass which is already present in parent class is known as method overriding.

e)  "final" keyword
    Once a final variable has been assigned, it always contains the same value
    Similar to const keyword in C++.

f)  Abstract class
    An abstract class is a class that is declared abstract —it may or may not include abstract methods. 
    Abstract classes cannot be instantiated, but they can be subclassed. 
    When an abstract class is subclassed, the subclass usually provides implementations for all of the abstract methods in its parent class.
 

3)  

Consider the following program comprised of classes A, B, and C:

 public class A {

  public void method(){

  }

}

 public class B extends A {

  public void methodB() {

  }

} 

public class C {

  public void methodC(A i) {

     i.method();

     ((B) i).methodB();

  } 

  public static void main(String[] args) {

     A obj1 = new A();

     C obj2 = new C();

     obj2.methodC(obj1);

  }

} 

Answer the following questions:

Will this program compile correctly? If not, explain why.
Compilation is not possible.
Because type cast to B is not possible automatically.
Will this program run correctly? If not, explain why.
If the program cannot be compiled and its respective class file is not generated the program cannot be executed.
Will this program compile and run correctly if obj1 references an instance of class B instead of class A?
Yes the program will execute if obj1 reference an instance of class B .
In this case upcasting is not required.
 